ladies and gentlemen please welcome now
to the stage Eric Zelenka
good afternoon thank you for coming to
our presentation today we're going to be
talking a little bit about mac OS x
server specifically the tiger server
release and some of the new great
features and capabilities that we are
introducing in this in this version
you've heard some of the capabilities
talked about and some of the earlier
presentations but there's plenty of
other wonderful great features that
we're going to go into today so as you
know with mac OS and server we've been
rapidly innovating upon this offering
system for some time several years ago
back in two thousand one was the first
new release of mac OS x server that was
the 10-point o version we introduced
that at the 2001 developers conference
later that year we came out with the
10.1 version had a a number of
improvements and upgrades there at the
same time we you know later that year we
came out with the extra we now the
xserve the extra platform it was a
platform that a lot of people were
asking for they wanted a purpose server
a purpose-driven server they wanted
something that they could mount in a
rack that they could run this wonderful
new great server operating system that
we were building so in 2002 we finally
shipped the extra and we've been
innovating and consume deliver upon the
xserve in allston that same year we
delivered jaguar server so jaguar server
was was a wonderful release for us we
introduced a number of new capabilities
not only from with open directory and
netboot network install but a number of
great features for education market and
also higher education which was at that
time kind of a new area for apple that
was going into the enterprise more and
more then just in 2003 we had some
upgrades to the xserve who introduced
the extra of cluster node which again
was a purpose-built machine just for
high-performance computing applications
we also introduced the xserve raid
massive amounts of storage Panther
server was like if you're here last year
we were talking about Panther server at
that time this year we're talking about
tiger server but Panther server
continues to be these
our operating system that we're shipping
today in this presentation today we'll
be talking about a lot of the
capabilities that are in Panther server
and then the new improvements that we
continue to make on top of that other
innovation that we've done earlier this
year we ship the powermac I'm sorry the
xserve g5 back in Macworld then also
introduced the new xserve raid with
three and a half terabytes of storage
two new wonderful products that we're
also introducing is apple remote desktop
to everyone here should have a copy of
apple remote desktop i encourage you to
take apart your your kits when you get
back to our hotels tonight install it on
your systems and play with it this is a
full release of a thermo desktop to it's
a wonderful new upgrade and in the
sessions later on this week you'll hear
a lot more about it also xsan which is
our storage area network file system for
mac OS 10 and mac OS x server again
there'll be a number of sessions about
it later in this week and now tiger
server let's get into a tiger server and
talk more about what we're doing with
the offering system but first how are
people using this operating system that
we've been building well let's look at
some of the customer adoptions that are
out there initially we had a lot of
deployments in education on this picture
here is of a high school district k to
12 high school districts they are doing
a lot of servers I think miss Pacific
situations a lot of network home
directories this is a screenshot our
affect picture of University of Tokyo
this although there's no servers in that
picture there are 1600 systems here all
I max and their net booted diskless Lee
off of our servers 1600 systems this
closely net booted off of f of X you're
a macro stun server here's another
deployment in United Arab Emirates like
again I think this is a video one
Virginia Tech using a lot of the desktop
management tools and utilities that
we've introduced in the offering system
core feature animation this is a shake
render farm
that's a they're doing videos animations
all again using shake with mac OS x
server the laboratory in singapore high
performance computing computational
clustering deployment another one in
princeton this is an interesting one
this is a space observatory in germany
again taking a lot of data coming in off
of satellite taking in data from their
telescope systems that they have
analyzing that data using the
computational power that we have with
the exurbs and the easy to use easy to
manage operating system that we've
delivered with mac OS x server even in
apple's data center we're using on the
server operating system if you've ever
connected to you know dot mac and using
some of the applications and services
that are up there whether it's you know
your idisk or those types of things you
are connecting to our servers our server
operating system it's kind of that drink
your own champagne type of thinking and
we've even got customers we're doing
really crazy things with these servers
I'm not sure what these guys are doing
but they are having fun so that's the
good news so we see our servers deployed
in lots of lots of areas and we're
trying to deliver a server operating
system that's flexible that can be used
for lots of different types of
deployments I'm actually going to
enterprise spaces there specific types
of applications for specific purposes
and you'll hear a lot of about those as
we go on you've probably seen this slide
a number of times this really is our
strategy we are building upon standards
open source and we're innovating upon
that but if you look at our goals what
are what are we really trying to do with
this product well we're trying to make
our server is easy to you is we want to
make them very easy to set up and deploy
especially if you've got you know a
couple of them or hundreds or thousands
of excerpts we want to provide a really
good server for macintosh and windows
environments there's a lot of
departments a lot of work groups out
there that can benefit from
the services that we provide in this
operating system we want to make it easy
for our systems to integrate with
existing networks and we want to take
some of this open source movement that's
going on innovate upon it integrate it
test it and make open source very easy
to use and so again you'll see that with
throughout the product and as we talked
about from the new features that we're
introducing today so let's take a look
at tiger server what we're delivering in
tiger server first of all before we go
into the new services within tiger
server let's talk about the fundamentals
of the operating system when we look at
the the server operating system there's
really two sections there's the core
operating system decor OS that's mostly
the Darwin or the BSD the low level
components and then on top of that there
are a number of services that we have
built and we are designing and
delivering so I'm going to talk a little
bit about this server the core server
operating system there are six major
areas of the server operating system we
have you know the colonel and the
networking component our directory
services and network and syndication
layer which we've taken normally as a
standalone service we've dropped that
down into the core of the operating
system the library's the utilities
security infrastructures which normally
would be like just a service as a
standalone service ring on the OS we
build down deep into the core of the OS
and even high availability services so
if you look at the colonel we continue
to innovate on top of the colonel and
and the Darwin architecture that we have
it's combinations of you know various
versions of VFD one of the new features
that we're talking about here a lot is
support for 64-bit applications so
within Tiger server we now have the
capability of running 64-bit
applications and this is especially
useful for
our server customers who are you know
doing lots and lots of number crunching
they've got some very large numerics
that they're dealing with they need to
hold lots of data in memory at one time
so now we can actually allocate up to 64
bits of memory and your application can
take advantage of all of that on the
networking side of the operating system
we've got you know as Burt Ron mentioned
in his presentation earlier today this
is a BSc based networking architecture
for server youths we have capabilities
like I team multihoming so you can have
multiple interfaces find multi p
addresses to each of those various
interfaces jumbo frames support for
dealing a very very large packet
innovative things like it IP over
firewire so we can have high high
bandwidth low latency interconnects one
of the new features were introducing for
the networking thank you and tiger
server is support for Ethernet link
aggregation and this is compliant with
the 80 2 m3 ad standard and what this
allows you to do is take multiple
Ethernet links and aggregate them
together so you have increased overall
throughput to the server it also gives
us a network interface failover so if
one of those fate that one of those
connections with physical connections
were to get disconnected or or break or
something happen to it the link can
automatically fail over to to another
cable or another link aggregate so this
can be used with one ethernet switch it
could be used with two ethernet switches
this is a excellent this is an excellent
feature for x 75 if you look in the next
row of g5 we have two onboard gigabit
ethernet port now with the the right
type of switch you'll be able to
aggregate those those ports together and
get over a better overall throughput to
your server
I mentioned this directory services
architecture that we call open directory
that we've taken and integrated in to
the core of the operating system this is
a way of basically bottlenecking all
user account and authentication or
lookup requests bottlenecking them down
deep into the OS so that if you're using
one of the applications that Apple
delivered or a service that we delivered
or you're building an application or
you're hosting your own application you
can be using the same set of user
account names the same sets of passwords
that the rest of the operating system is
using so we build this down beef into a
tiger server also the other layer we
look at is the unix fans and libraries
there's lots of updates to these we
continue to try and keep the server
operating system up to date as much as
possible with the rest of the goings on
in the BSD world make sure that we have
the latest open source components here
but Tribble mentioned earlier are
focused on security and making sure that
the core of the operating system is very
secure and again there's a number of
different features and capabilities that
we have for security and some of them
are listed up here what's kind of
different in the server operating system
is some of the high availability
components that we build in if you have
a server you want your server to be
reliable you want it to be up and
running you know seven days a week 24
hours a day you don't want it to have
any problems and if there are problems
you want your server to you know do
whatever it can to try and fix those
problems and and they're not have those
problems to begin with so there's some
features that we deliver within the
product for this as you know on the
server operating system we introduced
filesystem journaling a long time ago we
have support for software raid
capabilities tiger server we know house
you know even raid 10 we have auto
restart capabilities so your service if
your service size we can restart your
service if there's a problem with the
entire server operating system the
hardware can actually automatically
restart
one of the features we delivered a while
ago was IP failover and we're
introducing a kind of a next generation
of IP failover today and we call it high
availability clustering what this allows
you to do is take two xserve that are
connected to the same shared storage and
have an active passive failover you can
create what we call a cluster pair and
you can create these pairs and have them
do the same thing what we're awesome
ating an entire server is support for
network file services so your AFP your
fists your NFS file services we're going
to automate the the creation of these
clustered pairs so you can have two
servers if one of those servers were to
fail or it was to go down the other
server will automatically take over the
responsibilities for that server and
handling it its network file services so
this is a great solution as you'll hear
in presentation tomorrow morning there's
also there's a really flexible
architecture here and you can build your
own custom solutions using this high
availability clustering architecture the
result so those are the six main
components that make up the core of the
server operating system and now I'm
going to invite up Greg Byrne who's the
senior director of the server and
storage engineering team and Greg's
going to take you through a walk-through
of all the different services that were
introducing in tiger server Greg
so layered on top of the core OS and Mac
os10 server is a services layer and that
implements the services and the
management that provides the server
features of the product the services
layer includes server administration to
make management of all the services in
mac OS x server easy we have directory
services to provide naming and
authentication to all the servers and
clients on the network across platform
workgroup and collaboration services
client management to make management and
deployment of clients macintosh clients
on the network very simple internet
networking services and new Integra
server we have high performance
computing clustering services so first
let's talk about server administration
the server administration facilities in
mac OS 10 server integrate all of the
many open-source products that we put
into the server and make it easy to
manage we have two main server
management applications in mac OS 10
server server admin which lets you
configure set up configure and monitor
all the services in mac OS 10 server it
also lets you manage multiple servers
from the same console workgroup manager
is our directory management application
it lets you manage all the user and
group accounts in the directory it's
designed to work with open directory but
it does work with any LDAP directory it
also lets you manage all of these
services that are configured out of the
directories such as preference
management for client management we're
introducing a couple new management
features in tiger server the first of
which is access control list we have
several types of access control lists in
tiger server for the file system for
services and for the directory now those
of you that are familiar with panther
server know that it uses unix
permissions and unix permissions while
they work well in simple cases have
problems being mapped to real-world
workflow if you have shared files on the
network and you need to be able to set
up groups of users who can write to
those files and other groups of users
who can only read them it's not really
possible to specify that with UNIX
permission so we have full support for
access control lists in the files
them to provide fine-grained control
over those objects we also support other
common features that you would expect
from access control lists like groups
within groups and full list of users and
groups that can be assigned to the file
system objects you can specify
inheritance for the for the ackles and
you can also have control over the
default permissions of objects that are
created in the file system now another
area that it can be difficult in working
with file systems and different
permissions models is being able to work
compatibly across multiple different
types of file systems but because we
support all of the features such as
inheritance default permissions
fine-grained permission settings and
allows and I rules Mac os10 server and
Mac OS 10 can be made to work in a
compatible manner with windows server
and with windows XP so it it simplifies
working in a cross-platform environment
we have other access control lists
support in mac OS x server and other
areas service circle in mac OS x server
today is he has a server bound to a
directory that has thousands or even
tens of thousands of users and you set
up a file server for instance every user
account in that directory can log on to
the server now you can control
permissions file systems permissions to
ensure that only the correct users get
access to your data but in many cases
you want to restrict that only to a core
set of users and with tiger server we're
introducing service ackles so that every
user based service in the server can
control the set of users and groups that
can access the server you can have the
same list for all services on your
server or manage each server
independently so that's service eccles
and finally we have directory ackles
which are global ackles that allow you
to control who can access and update the
contents of open directory and something
an open directory that is different from
other ldap servers is it stores these
directory ackles in the directory itself
to allow them to be propagated to the
replicas by taking advantage of open
directories replication so that's access
control list in Tiger server
another new piece where we have for
management and Tegra server certificate
management now you certificate
management in 10 3 involved going into
command line and it was different for
each service and although it could be
done it was sometimes somewhat
cumbersome so we've simplified this
greatly and tiger server we've added
certificate management in the
administration tools and you can use
this with certificates that are signed
by certificate authorities and you can
also use Tigers new certificate
assistant for self signing your own
certificates in your organization you
can display all the certificates you
have available and assign them to
services or websites as necessary so
certificate management Integra server
next up we'll talk about open directory
open directory is Apple's directory and
meaning service its standard space and
it implements ldap naming services and
it implements Kerberos for
authentication we used openldap and MIT
kerberos Kerberos is used to implement
single sign-on which lets you log in
once with one password it's never sent
over the network and it's you get an
authentication ticket which is good for
all services in Mac OS 10 we also have a
sport for what we call the password
server which supports pass or
replication to all of the open directory
replicas on the network and this
includes replicating all the Kerberos
support as well so that you can have
replicated Kerberos authentication
across your entire network we integrate
Samba with open directory as well to
provide NT domain services for your
Windows clients to allow them to
authenticate as well with the same
account information and of course we
mentioned all the replication that's
built into open directory we have a
couple enhancements that we're putting
an open directory and tiger server the
first is managed network browsing now
what is this in 10 dot 3 today if you
have a large organization and you go to
network you can get somewhat confusing
and unwieldy and difficult to navigate
and we fix that in Tiger Integra server
by allowing you to control the contents
of the network directory and you can see
greatly simplify it and make it easy to
navigate we provide virtual network
views
which can be controlled by the network
administrator the view is defined
instant in the math question server and
it's stored in the directory so any
client that binds to open directory will
see the view you can combine both
dynamic service discovery protocols for
mac and windows as well as static
entries that are stored in the directory
and you can even have pointers to other
entries that are outside of your local
network that show up in the network
folder and we make it easy to manage its
managed through workgroup manager our
directory management tool where you can
create these views and preview to
preview them so this greatly simplifies
and makes it easier to set up the
network folder in your clients to Mac
os10 server and in Tiger we've also made
some enhancements open directory some
which include as we mentioned storage of
the access controls in the directory
another thing that we're storing in the
directory itself is the ldap schema so
the schema will now be propagated to
replicas as well as the access control
information so again this greatly
simplifies managing multiple open
directory servers and simplifies the
replication process we're adding
organizational unit supports so you can
have multiple independent LDAP datasets
hosted out of your open directory server
we're improving the scalability we've
tested up to 200,000 servers 200,000
records per server and we've added some
tools that really help simplify the
process of managing large open directory
services we've improved search and apply
so you can do batch editing of large
number of records in the server as well
as improving the import tool and in
additionally since you need to backup
all this data we've built in hot backup
command line utilities that allow you to
backup your naming authentication data
based on the flash and we made some
enhancement new security we have
authenticated directory binding and the
server and the client so that
administrators can control who accesses
the directory and you have mutual
authentication between the client and
server and we have the MTL mv2
authentication for windows clients to
provide more security for windows client
authentication
another area of services in my question
server is workgroup and collaboration
work and collaboration services provide
for sharing in work groups and the most
common of these obviously are file and
print and like we do today we support
file and print sharing for math Windows
and Linux clients this works for folders
on the file server as well as home
directories between mac and windows and
sharing your network printers as well so
all of your local work with resources
these are fully integrated in mac OS x
server all of the protocols can share
the same SharePoint the same share
folders they use the same access
privileges the same account information
so you set it up once and the files are
accessible from all clients the Windows
domain services are integrated as well
so the windows clients have full access
to all of the resources on the server we
support windows roaming profile for home
directory login and we have made of
print services for both Mac and Windows
clients we made some enhancements to
work with services as well a couple of
these are unified file logs now we have
file locking today in mac OS x server
but we've enhanced this to make sure
that the file locking is consistent
between all the protocols so that no
matter what clients you're logging in
from no matter what platform if you're
accessing the same data you get
consistent locking we've added we've
added backup domain controller support
which is exists today in Samba but we've
added configuration for this and then
management tools to make it easy to set
up to provide we'd only failover for the
Windows domain services for greater
reliability and we've integrated the
print services more directly with cups
so that when you managed print services
in server admin L you are managing the
cups queues you're managing the cups
printing we've eliminated some of the
middle layers there and really tighter
integration and services with cups and
we've also added printf dedication so
you can control active streak use
we've added a few new services for work
with me collaboration as well the first
is the ichat server the tiger i chat
server provides encrypted messaging for
your intranet and a secure namespace
it's based on jabber using the SMTP
protocol and it provides cross-platform
support obviously with Jabbar clients as
well as Tigers I chat client and because
it's integrated with open directory and
provides a secure namespace for chat
with in your local intranet we also have
a weblog server that we're introducing
Integra server as well a weblog is a way
of easily publishing and syndicating
information on the internet and what the
web log server does is allow you to
publish information and syndicate it
using standard protocols like RSS or
atom this morning you heard about Safari
SSS or weblog server is completely
compatible with our safari SSS as well
as any other popular RSS reader we have
a number of features that we support
around style sheets and calendar based
navigation that people who manage web
blogs can control for their individual
logs the logs themselves are
automatically created as needed for user
accounts in open directory and you can
post to them directly from the web or
from clients that support standard
protocols like xml RPC or atom and
another feature we have in mac OS x
server and tiger server is the ability
to have group web blogs as well so that
people that are doing shared project web
blogs can use a group account you know
open directory to have to have multiple
folks have write access to a weblog so
now I'd like to have Eric come up again
and do a quick demo of weblog service
using tiger
thank you Greg the weblog server that
we've built into Tiger server is going
to be a wonderful tool it's going to
allow people to better syndicate or
publish their content out to others but
also allow a new way of our groups to
communicate information I think one of
the one of the benefits of RSS and and
the syndication of information is it
makes it really easy to you know
communicate with the rest of the world
part of the problem with it is how do I
get that information out to the rest of
world how can I publish this information
I'm not an XML expert so how can I
create this data and push it out to the
rest of the world so let me show you how
easy that is going to be in tiger server
first of all I'm going to launch the
server admin application so we're adding
an application here I'm going to go in
and in our for the web server it's very
very simple i can go to the site that
I'm hosting and I just with a simple
checkbox I can enable the weblog server
next let's go down to Safari and I'll
open up safari here okay you log back in
so I've connected off to the weblog
server which is which is running on this
this tiger server box here you'll notice
a couple of things first of all this i
have that i have calendar-based views so
with most blogs you need to be able to
go back it's time based information I
can go to any dates here on the calendar
and it'll show me the the entries that
were created for that day I have ability
to search within the various blogs
search and return that content to me you
also know categories that are available
down here so as I i click different
products I can get the the information
that was posted into that category so
first first thing I'm going to do is in
this view right here would this be like
the basic end user view they're just
going up there they're just looking at
the data within the browser notice that
Safari up here displays the RSS so this
is actually an RSS feed it notices that
there's RSS information that's available
here the links that are available at the
bottom by clicking one of those I will
actually see the the RSS information
that is there and by clicking this in so
far
RSS it actually gets displayed I can
also take this information and download
it to the desktop and then or copy that
RSS URL information or XML information
put it into some other type of client so
first thing I'm i do here is I'm going
to log in now the login information here
this is actually bound to a directory so
I could be balanced to if the server's
just writing locally it could just use
the counselor on that local machine as
reg mentioned the server is typically
going to be integrated with an existing
directory system so we can take
advantage of the user accounts the
namespace is already created for you and
it within the network so i'm going to
log in here hopefully i remember the
right name and password i did i have the
ability now as as the owner of this area
of this weblog of creating a new
category so i can here's the new
category here so i'm going to create a
new category and i'm going to you know
name this after i chat because i'm going
to go and i'm going to create an ichat
entry the next thing I do is I'm going
to go and I'm going to make an ichat
entry so I'm gonna pick the appropriate
category here and I'm going to go grab
some some text so Steve made me famous
this morning for doing a video
conference at 35,000 feet unfortunately
I'm not famous for my product but that's
ok so I'm going to take this information
here you know a little bit of text here
we copied some of this
and just paste the simple text in and
hit save and then automatically I get an
update you'll notice that the weblog
stover gives the feedback to the user
that says that their web log entry is
was created as users read this they can
post comments to each of the individual
entries and as an administrator also
have the ability to go back edit this
information and delete it at any time
that I see fit so this is the new weblog
server in Tiger server thank you so
that's work open collaboration services
now let's move on to client management
client management services in math
question server let you easily deploy
and manage large numbers of Macintosh
computers we have client management
services that let you control
preferences and capabilities on the
client this is called directory based
management or preference management this
is deployed via open directory and it's
configured from the workgroup manager
application in mac OS x server we also
have system imaging services that make
it easy to set up and deploy software on
systems throughout your network netboot
lets you configure a single image or a
small group of image and boot network
systems from them from the server you
can also use net install to install
those same images to systems that are on
the network as well we've made a few
improvements to system imaging and tiger
server the first of which is when you
create these images we now configure the
open directory configuration for your
network in the images to make it easier
to deploy the images without having to
tweak open directory settings afterwards
we also are supporting block coffee for
software installs and net installs the
greatly in speed in essence
and lastly we're allowing you to create
bootable DVD images from your net
install images so you can install those
images on systems that are offline off
the network we have a few other services
that we're adding the client management
the entire server the first of which is
mobile home directories mobile home
directories lets you take user files
account and other information that
pertains to your home directory and sync
is between a portable and a network home
directory this synchronization occurs
when the portable is connected to the
network it occurs in the background with
trickle sync and when your affordable is
offline and these files are updated the
files in your home directory in your
document folder your preferences and
their updated when you connect back to
the network to the home directory
they'll be synced back up to the server
so this allows you to maintain
consistent information between your
portable and your network home directory
server and it also allows you to have a
backup of the contents of the portable
on the network in case it ever becomes
lost and because the account information
is synchronized as well between the
portable computer and the network the
single sign-on on the network is also
brought down to the portable when it's
offline because all the account
information and the authentication
information is synchronized as well so
that's mobile home directories and tiger
server
and software update server we heard in
the earlier session allows you to deal
with an issue that we have to date where
we have a lot of software updates that
make it very easy to maintain the latest
software on your Mac os10 systems it
makes it very convenient but when we
have a new update like a Mac OS 10 10 34
and you have everyone in your
organization downloading that update the
day it comes out it can create a real
strain on your network bandwidth so
software update allows you to use mac OS
x software updates but by providing a
proxy cache server for software updates
also conserve network bandwidth and
makes it easier for you to get those
updates into your organization it's
totally transparent and automatic when
software updates become available
they're downloaded to the server and
made available to the client but you
have control as well some sites like to
test the updates to make sure it works
with their internal software before they
make them available for deployment and
so you can either choose to make the
software updates automatically available
to clients as soon as they're posted or
you can make that step manual and test
the updates yourself and then release
them once you're satisfied that they
work with your internal applications
software update server
the internet and networking services in
mac OS x server allow you to manage your
network and host application which is
web services mail and java application
services for networking for in mac OS x
server we support dns for domain address
name management DHD for IP address
assignments nap for connecting to the
internet and for sharing I IP addresses
among systems we support firewall for
securing your connections of the
internet and we support VPN to allow
remote clients whether they be mac or
windows to access services on your
network securely from a remote location
we've made a few enhancements to
networking services Integra server the
first is site to site VPN if you have
multiple sites and you want to have a
secure land virtual land between them we
allow you to set up site to site VPN
between these sites we do this over the
Internet securely with ipsec we improve
server management with dhcp by allowing
you to manage systems that have multiple
network interfaces and handled address
assignment for those systems as well as
handling static IP address assignment in
server admin as well and we've improved
the workflow for DNS management we've
greatly simplified that over the 10 dot
3 release another area of networking
services that can be somewhat difficult
is setting up internet gateway services
this is fairly complex or a number of
services that all happy has to be
configured consistently with each other
and we've simplified this Integra server
through the Gateway setup assistant this
sets up everything you need for an
Internet gateway so it configures or
dhcp and your VPN address ranges map
port routing the firewall VPN and it
doesn't in just a few simple steps and
so this is ideal for small side small
businesses that have a connection to the
internet for remote sites that share one
dsl connection to the internet it makes
it very easy to setup the server as an
Internet gateway so I'm going to ask
Eric to come up again and demo this and
show you how simple it is
one of the things that we want to make
easy in tiger server was to make it make
it much easier to set up complex
networking services on a lot of people
are trying to use servers for port
routing or they want to have it one port
on their server the poor connection now
for the the LAN another port for
connection onto the land but they've got
all these different services that they
need to configure you've got your DNS
your dhcp you've got your firewall you
might be running a VPN you've got a set
of port mapping that there's a lot of
different services so in Tiger server
one of the things we're making it much
easier to do is set up easier to setup
and these are all these spirit different
services so within the server admin
application you can now select the
gateway set up tool what this will do is
it set an assistant there we go and try
that again
there we go so the Gateway is set up a
distant tool allows you to configure
your server for use as a gateway it's a
very simple assistant kind of walks the
user through what needs to be done to
the server so the first thing you're
going to do is select which port you're
going to use as your ear port for the
LAN this might be a cable modem
broadband connection using dsl or or
those sorts of things next you're going
to configure which land port so if you
have an extra when you have another
building give Ethernet port that might
be something you select here obviously
I'm on a desktop system here so I don't
have multiple built-in ethernet port
then what the network then what the
internet gateways set up a system is
going to do is it's going to give me a
summary of the configuration changes
it's going to make so it tells me here's
what I'm going to do I'm going to set up
this port I'm going to turn on port port
mapping i'm going to configure your dhcp
server i'm going to set up NAT I'm going
to turn DNS saw on for caching and if I
hit apply here it's actually going to
reconfigure this machine so i will lose
some networking capability here and now
it's done so now what i can do is i can
go back into the server admin
application and within this application
a number of services have been turned on
for me so i can go into the firewall i
can go into its settings i can see that
the firewall settings have been
automatically configured for me within
dns i can see that here nat is stopped
there now it's running but what it does
is automatically configures up each of
these services for you so again another
really innovative feature that we're
delivering and tiger server make it very
easy for people to use these complex
network services okay
[Applause]
internet services in mac OS x server we
we had a broad range of Internet
services intended three and of course we
carried these forward Apache for web
services the most widely deployed web
server in the world we have integrated
mail services that are based on a number
of open source projects postfix for mail
delivery Cyrus for imap and mailman for
list management we've integrated these
all together they're all integrated
store open directory for account
management and through server admin for
management and configuration we have
quicktime streaming services that allow
you to host streaming media or video on
demand as well as live media that
streams as well you can use QuickTime
broadcaster to encode the live media and
reflect it through the QuickTime
streaming server and we have Q GS s
publisher which lets you manage your
content on the QuickTime streaming
server if you're building enterprise
Java applications we support j2ee
through jboss and apache tomcat and if
you need to host a back-end database and
link it in your websites we include
mysql as well we've carried these two
verses forward and we've provided some
enhancements to tiger server as well the
first is in the area of mail services
where we've integrated junk mail
filtering and virus filtering into the
mail server with spam assassin an open
source project that we've enjoyed we've
integrated this in with our mail
services and we've also integrated all
of the management in the server admin so
it's very easy to configure and shut up
we sport virtual domains now for the
mail server where we allow you to set up
multiple virtual male domains so if you
have for instance company 1 and company
two on your server you can have the same
male name sales @ company 1 or sales at
company to go to multiple independent
mailboxes on the server we even enhance
the support for mail quotas so you can
have soft quotas with customizable
messages as well as hard quotas that
will actually stop delivery of mail to
mail boxes that are full we've also
delivered some enhancements to quicktime
streaming we've enhanced the qts
publisher for improve the workflow and
added Apple
script support and we've enhanced the
scalability of quicktime streaming to
support bit rates that can now deliver
HD quality on local internet with our
latest codecs that's Internet services
integra server and lastly another area
that you've heard in the previous
sessions a bit about today this
high-performance computing with grid
grid clusters and we have previously
released a technology preview of
technology we call experts and we're
improving that and product sizing that
in Tiger server X grid will provide
software that you need to provide
clustering in macro Stan and macro stem
server you can do that through a
dedicated set of ex-service Turing nodes
or you can also use X grid to harvest
their CPU cycles from desktops that you
have in your network when they're not
being used for ad hoc clustering X grid
will have an SDK that allows you to
embed awareness and use of the grid into
your applications it also works with
command-line applications so that you
can distribute command-line jobs that
have no inherent awareness of the grid
of the cluster we provide management
tools that let you set up the grid
through server admin and manage your
systems and you can manage job and job
submission and node status from any
client on the network and like all of
the other services and tiger server it's
integrated with open directory for
security so those are the services layer
in that integra server in mac OS 10
server server administration directory
services workgroup client management
internet and high performance computing
we've talked about a few of the major
features that we're introducing here
today 64-bit applications access control
lists mobile directories there are a lot
more we don't have time to go through a
mall we've actually added about 200 new
features in the server and in Mac OS 10
server we have about a hundred open
source solutions that we've integrated
we've integrated all of these by
integrating them with open directory so
they share the same account information
the same authentication information and
we've integrated them through server
admin so they have the same management
they're easy to set up and do bigger so
Tiger server so next I'd like to point
you to a few sessions related to the
server there are actually quite a few in
the IT track this week so not going to
list them all but here are a few that
you shouldn't miss they'll call out and
you can check your schedules to the rest
tomorrow morning is inside Mac os10
server tomorrow afternoon if you want to
find out more about file system access
controls there's a session there on
Wednesday we have a session on
developing 64-bit applications we have
sessions on desktop management
technologies in now for remote desktop
for our client management as well we
have two sessions on Wednesday for X and
some sessions on directory services on
Thursday and network authentication for
j 3 and java programming on the server
we have a session on jboss on friday and
we have a session on distributed
computing with exquisite clustering
services from a question server on
wednesday afternoon if you have feedback
we have a feedback form for the server
tomorrow afternoon and like it may have
been moved so check your calendar and we
have enterprise feedback forum as well
so if you read more information there is
the release notes and documentation will
be posted for tiger server as it becomes
available on the Apple Developer connect
site and you can get the current
documentation for the server product
there as well